DURBAN - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA)’s Investigating Directorate has received an unlimited restraint order against the property of a Gupta-owned company that was opened in South Africa. Islandsite Investments is one of the few Gupta-owned companies that have assets within the country. Spokesperson Sindisiwe Seboka: "The order also has sight of the business rescue practitioners on because we know that that process is currently taking place. We must also add that the order also extends to Iqbal Sharma and property that he owns and more particularly, his two companies - Nulane Investment as well as Issar Global." The NPA has been granted an unlimited order to seize assets belonging to Sharma that includes a R12 million house featured on tv show Top Billing. One of the luxurious properties seized by the state was featured on Top Billing [WATCH] https://t.co/vOLj1Ww6m8#ClaimingBackProceedsOfCrime  Sharma was charged with fraud and money laundering in Bloemfontein on alongside 3 former Free State officials who allegedly awarded a R25 million contract for the Vrede dairy farm feasibility study. Sharma and former HOD Peter Thabethe are still in the holding cells in Bloemfontein waiting to apply for bail on Monday while Limakatso Moorosi and Seipati Dlamini were granted bail of R10,000 each on Thursday. The NPA said the fraudulent proceeds of the R24.9 million paid to Sharma’s company Nulane by the Free State Department of Agriculture was transferred to several other companies, including Gupta entities Islandsite and Pragat Investments to launder the funds ultimately directed to the Gupta family. Now the assets will be frozen until the trial is concluded. Seboka said: “The NPA’s directorate has received an unlimited restraint order against a Gupta company that was opened in South Africa, it’s one of the few companies that still have assets in the country, the order extends to Igbal Sharma and the companies that he owns.” Among the properties is a R21 million house in Constantia, Cape Town, registered to a Gupta company. The others include two houses valued at R12 million in Saxonwold and Sandton registered to a UAE company and a sectional title home worth R1.3 million. Should Sharma be convicted, the NDPP will apply for a confiscation order against him and Islandsite to recoup the value of benefits derived from the offences and related criminal activities. The state capture commission heard that the Gupta enterprise made R15 billion in kickbacks from contracts such as the Vrede dairy farm. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.