JOHANNESBURG - Government on Tuesday said they were unable to verify if a Gauteng couple indeed had 10 children as was reported. IOL reported on an exclusive story earlier on Tuesday, saying Gosiame Thamara Sithole from Tembisa gave birth to 10 children at an unnamed Pretoria hospital. Government communications department director-general Phumla Williams asked the public and tagged IOL in a tweet asking for more information. "We need to verify this story and provide assistance where needed." Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina also said they tried to find out where the family was, to no success. We have spent a better part of today tracing the story of @IOL  of a woman having given birth to 10 babies! @IOL can you please help the public where this birth happened!  My office & our Dept. of Social Dev. have been searching for the family who allegedly gave birth to 10 kids today. Apparently they from Tembisa & we wanted to assist as a city. Can @IOL provide some info on this story? Or has mainstream media degenerated to a fake news factory?  Sithole is said to have broken the Guinness World Record held by Malian Halima Cissé who gave birth to nine children in Morocco last month. The Guinness World Record does not have this birth recorded on its site as yet. Thamara's husband Teboho Tsotetsi was quoted saying: “It’s seven boys and three girls. She was seven months and seven days pregnant. I am happy. I am emotional. I can’t talk much. Let’s talk again in the morning please,”. According to IOL, when they had an interview last month with the couple, they were asked to delay the publication of the pregnancy at the request of the happy parents for safety and cultural reasons, Sithole is quoted as having said she was shocked and fascinated by the pregnancy. The story left the nation shocked and excited about a #NationalBabyshower that many started to contribute towards for the family. Eyewitness News tried to contact Piet Rampedi, author of the story and editor of IOL publication Pretoria News but was unable to reach him. Its time to play our part and give a helping hand. Join us, and tag brands that can contribute to the #NationalBabyShower. We nominate @Clicks_SA Guinness World Record https://t.co/pqYEZgiINF  Where the babies at? #NationalBabyShower pic.twitter.com/WSujnHuJoo  In another twist (typical South African way) the government has no record of  the 10 babies that were supposedly born in Tembisa hospital.#NationalBabyShower pic.twitter.com/mZZVTYIrM7  #SAfmBTH pledges R3000 and 2 nappy packets  #NationalBabyShower @tumisole https://t.co/QoKZ2KZbz6  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.