DURBAN - The Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA) has denied allegations of mismanagement and corruption. On Tuesday, the state-owned bank appeared before Parliament’s finance watchdog Scopa to address allegations of financial irregularities in respect of certain multi-million rand loans. It’s also alleged there’s been victimisation of certain board members and an irregular reformation of the board. Scopa has received a briefing about various transactions and loans extended by the DBSA to a number of companies. These include a DBSA funded company called Poseidon, which allegedly had links to Harith General Partners, a company that had not been painted in a favourable light by the Mpati Commission. The Scopa meeting follows an open letter by UDM leader Bantu Holomisa where he makes allegations of maladministration and possible deep-rooted corruption at the DBSA as well as of the victimisation of board members. However, DBSA CEO Patrick Dlamini denied the claims. "There’s no evidence of conflict of interest in all these things. There’s been no collusion that we’ve actually become aware of even with several investigations of fraud on all these transactions.” Finance Minister Tito Mboweni has called for a quick resolution of the allegations. “The matters must be ventilated openly and candidly so that we can all leave this meeting with a view that our institution - the DBSA  - is well run and well managed and where there are faults, we should seek to correct them.” Scopa will institute an inquiry into allegations of corruption and maladministration at the DBSA. Scopa chairperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the responses from the DBSA, which had denied the claims, were not good enough and would need to be probed further. “Ours is to fill in the blanks and the gaps with an inquiry so that we bring this matter to a logical parliamentary conclusion and make the necessary recommendations and necessary referrals.” The committee will also work with the office of the Auditor-General and the Special Investigating Unit. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.