JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC)’s Integrity Commission has yet to set a date for Health Minister Zweli Mkhize’s appearance. The commission has confirmed he sent a letter over the weekend asking to explain his side of the Digital Vibes story. Mkhize has been beset by allegations that he benefited from a multimillion-rand irregular tender from his department that was awarded to his close associates. Mkhize’s son is also said to have benefited. Calls are growing for Mkhize to step down and his name is expected to be on the agenda on  Monday when the ANC's national working committee (NWC) meets. Factions within the party are divided on his fate; some are joining calls for the embattled minister to vacate his office. Other ANC leaders believe the party should be left out of the latest scandal as it had nothing to do with the corruption allegations facing the minister. FUTURE OF MKMVA? Mkhize and the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) are some of the issues expected to be on the agenda when the ANC NWC meets on Monday afternoon. While the MKMVA is believed to be fighting a losing battle after its president Kebby Maphatsoe accused the party of ambushing and dissolving it in spite of the work it’s done towards a united conference. ALSO READ: We are behind him: ANC rallies behind Mkhize amid tender saga MAHLATSE MAHLASE: Ramaphosa has enough to act on with Mkhize. So why won't he? WATCH: Legal vibes: Zweli Mkhize takes advice to not appear before Parliament  This week might mark the end for the MKMVA as we know it as it seems the association, which has largely been seen as a factional tool for some in the ANC, could be dissolved in place of a preparatory committee for a united conference. The ANC is trying to bring together two warring factions of their former combatants. But Maphatsoe, in a letter he wrote to Jessie Duarte last week, argued that the proposed move was both drastic and critical. He asked for further information on the deviation from the original plan. Maphatsoe also points out that numerous requests to meet with the party officials have fallen on deaf ears as he continues to ask for issues raised in the letter to be addressed. WATCH: Digital Vibes, firearms and the end of load shedding - Ramaphosa answers media questions  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.