JOHANNESBURG - After a six-year battle for access to safe drinking water at a primary school, the Gauteng Education Department in collaboration with a private company is finally expected to provide the Soweto institution with a sustainable water supply. Earlier this year, Eyewitness News revealed how the Goza Primary School, which accommodates 1,400 pupils, had been forced to come up with its own survival plan after being failed by government. READ• Thirsting for excellence: Soweto school struggling to access water for 6 years• Equal Education says lack of water at Goza Primary is unlawful On Wednesday morning, JSE listed company, the AECI Group, will be handing over a donation to the school. #GozaPrimary Through private funders, the AECI Group, will be handing over a borehole, water filtration plant and flow taps to the school. ML  @AbigailJavier_ pic.twitter.com/eOh6MHP1dY  #GozaPrimary SGB: You have given us life. We were desperate, thank you so much. ML pic.twitter.com/Liy1vMAGWa  It’s been a six-year wait but the schoolchildren here at Goza Primary in Soweto should soon have a sustainable water supply running from their taps and enough to flush their toilets. Private funder, the AECI group, has sponsored a borehole, along with a water filtration plant and flow taps for this school. Two months ago, Eyewitness News revealed how children here had to relieve themselves in the bush without water to service the toilets. The school had been waiting to be added to the grid since the school opened its doors - that was back in 2014. The Gauteng Education Department then said that national government was not approving the school's rezoning plans and therefore its water connection was not linked to the City of Joburg’s grid. It also claimed to be fighting the battle for years and said that the lack of water was being handled by the provincial Department of Infrastructure and the national Department of Public Works. WATCH: Six years with no proper access to water – A Soweto school struggles for basic services  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.