Note: This article has been updated to include the Presidency's comment. JOHANNESBURG - For a moment on Tuesday, it seemed petty crime had found a victim in President Cyril Ramaphosa, much to the shock of the public. Ramaphosa was in Cape Town on Tuesday for the establishment of the Transnet National Ports Authority as an independent subsidiary of Transnet. As he was about to deliver the keynote on live TV - which he was to read from his iPad - he realised with visible shock that it had simply disappeared. Many assumed it had been stolen... They even steal the Presidents IPad/ Amasela r all over. Where was the security. pic.twitter.com/q4oraomzIn  "I had my iPad. Do you know where they took my iPad to? This is the problem of always handing out your gadgets to other people. It's always best that I keep all these things with me all the time. I had my iPad. I had it in my hand. It's gone. I lost it, it seems." Ramaphosa had to sit down again until a backup copy of his speech was brought. Some found this funny while others decried what they thought to be the brazenness of a crime that it could happen to our first citizen. The Presidency said, however, that the president was making a joke. "There was no question of the iPad being missing or stolen. The President was making a light-hearted point while waiting for the iPad to be brought to him - which it was before he began his remarks to media," Tyrone Seal, chief director of communications in the president's office, told Eyewitness News. Where is President Cyril Ramaphosas iPad South Africa??? Please help the President. #RoyalAM #Amakhosi4Life The EFF #RIPLuzukoNteleko Steve Komphela #CR17BankStatements Usher #COVID19 #Covid19SA #malemaon405 #AskAMan Rich Mnisi pic.twitter.com/2lly5OSdWv  Nitsi the presidents iPad went missing during a live press conference?Yifilm enjani le? pic.twitter.com/bdOUSnpNWO  The same place the police that are supposed to be serving and protecting the community. Taking a afternoon nap  meaning crime is a problem lead us leaders find the thief  Hope they find the person who did this The Pres sounds traumatized pic.twitter.com/9edIBLqlIC  its not just an ordinary theft Njengele, its a deliberate ploy to embarrass himthe looters who r feeling the net closing around them r sending out a signal that they r still in charge (not down & out yet) a sign of worst things to come!! ooh cry our beloved country  Who stole his iPad?  This is embarrassing nkosyam #CR17BankStatements #MalemaOn405 #Covid19SA Rich Mnisi Steve Komphela #level5 Cyril Ramaphosa Gauteng pic.twitter.com/CLT0GRQ1o5  But, it seems crime may not have been to blame for the lost-and-found episode. A few hours later, the "first iPad", as Ramaphosa's head of digital called it, was found and back in its owners hands, to his relief. The First iPad has been found compatriots  pic.twitter.com/SBZGskAQLw  The way this caused panic for everyone  If they can steal president iPad just like that, then the country security is in high risk.  That was not nice guys Those who are around the President are supposed to more vigilant  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.