DURBAN - Members of the LGBTQI+ community in KwaMakhutha have slammed the African National Congress (ANC), saying that it was politicising the murder of a local gay woman. On Wednesday, protesters converged on a local police station to demand justice for Anele Bhengu, a young lesbian who was murdered and dumped in an apparent hate crime. People wearing ANC regalia were part of the protest but local activists and Bhengu’s close friends said that political slogans and chants from the ANC-aligned South African Civic Organisation (Sanco) left them unsettled. Bhengu’s body was discovered on Sunday morning - she'd been stabbed to death and dumped in a ditch. #YouthDay2021 Scores of ppl have now gathered outside the KwaMakhutha Police Station.  They are calling for a thorough investigation into Anele Bhengus murder. Members of the LGBTI community who have spoken to EWN say they will ensure that her passing is not in vain. @NkoRaphael pic.twitter.com/PoRQHJQLnW  #YouthDay2021 As the country commemorates the 45th anniversary of the Soweto Uprising - the Youth of KwaMakhutha, south of Durban, are staging a demonstration calling for justice and recognition of LGBT+ rights. @NkoRaphael pic.twitter.com/jVy3beXLlS  Her family believed that she was also raped. Scores of protesters turned out on Wednesday to demand action and they were joined by ANC-aligned groupings like Sanco. Bhengu's best friend, Siphesihle Mchunu, said that it turned a community march centred on a young victim into an election campaign event. "They came with their own agendas to promote the ANC. This is not on. I want justice for my best friend," Mchunu said. Sanco's Thulani Gamede directed the programme during the march and read out a memorandum of demands on behalf of the LGBTQI+ community and he insisted that their actions were non-political. "In fact, we have a relationship with gay and lesbian organisation - they set up support for us and we then supported the programme." Bhengu's murder was the latest in a series of crimes against members of the LGBTQI+ community across the country this year that's prompted calls for Parliament to push through the Hate Crimes Bill. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.