JOHANNESBURG - Eyewitness News on Friday learnt that the woman who claimed to have birthed decuplets has shown no signs of ever being pregnant or delivering a baby in the past two weeks. Sources close to the investigation into the matter told Eyewitness News that Gosiame Sithole was medically examined by a medical team at the Thembisa Hospital on Gauteng’s East Rand. “The medical evaluation has shown that there was no  pregnancy. It also shows that there are no physical scars to indicate a recent C-section,” a source said. Independent Media’s Pretoria News published a story last Tuesday reporting as fact that Sithole and her partner Tebogo Tsotetsi delivered decuplets breaking the Guinness World Record. The report also said that  37-year-old Sithole had given birth to five babies vaginally and the others via a C-section. The story gripped South Africans and the world because of its rarity. Banking details and requests for financial help were also published on the front page of the Pretoria News. However, nine days after the supposed birth there has been no evidence presented to show that the babies were actually born. The Gauteng Health Department released a statement last week saying they had no record of the decuplets being born at any of the province's private and public facilities. The Department of Home Affairs also said that there had been no registration of 10 babies born to a single mother. No medical doctor has also come forward to confirm that the babies were born. Tsotetsi released a statement saying he believed that the babies were never born. However, Sithole and Independent Media have steadfastly claimed that the babies were in existence and blamed the government for an alleged cover up. Eyewitness News understands that Sithole was detained under the Mental Healthcare Act, which allows for authorities to hold a person for at least 72 hours to do a psychiatric evaluation. It is deemed unethical to reveal medical details of a patient without consent. However, according to the Health Professions Council of South Africa, it can be disclosed without consent "in cases where health care practitioners have considered all the available means of obtaining consent, but are satisfied that it is not practicable to do so, or that patients are not competent to give consent, or exceptionally, in cases where patients withhold consent, personal information may be disclosed in the public interest." "...the benefits to an individual or to society of the disclosure [should] outweigh the public and the patient's interest in keeping the information confidential," it states further. This is a developing news story. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.