TOKYO - Norway's Karsten Warholm shattered the world record to claim gold in an epic 400m hurdles at the Olympics on Tuesday as Germany's Malaika Mihambo soared to victory in the long jump. One of the most eagerly-anticipated events of the Olympic track and field programme, the 400m hurdles lived up to its billing as world champion Warholm produced a jaw-dropping performance in fierce midday sun at Tokyo's Olympic Stadium. The 25-year-old stormed over the line in an incredible 45.94sec, slicing a massive 0.8sec off his own world mark of 46.70sec set in Oslo last month. Long-time USA rival Rai Benjamin pushed Warholm hard in the home straight and took silver in another blistering time of 46.17sec, the second fastest in history. Brazil's Alison dos Santos narrowly missed ducking inside the old world record, clocking 46.72sec to take bronze. Warholm roared in apparent disbelief as he spotted his winning time, dropping to his knees and ripping open his running vest. Benjamin had seemed perfectly positioned to reel in Warholm as he lurked on the Norwegian's shoulder coming to the final hurdle. But Warholm dug deep and drove every sinew of his 6ft 2in frame to the line for the win. It was the dramatic final act of an entertaining morning session on day five of the athletics competition that produced a gold for German long-jumper Mihambo in a classic duel with 2012 gold medallist and four-time world champion Brittney Reese of the United States. Mihambo was lying in the bronze medal position ahead of her final jump, but hammered down the runway to register a season-best jump of 7.00 metres to take the lead. That left Reese - who had led the competition with a best jump of 6.97m - with one final attempt to win gold. But the American could only manage 6.84 with her last leap, settling for silver ahead of Nigeria's Ese Brume who took bronze with a best jump of 6.97m. FELIX OFF THE MARK Elsewhere Tuesday, US track and field's golden girl Allyson Felix got her fifth Olympic Games off to a smooth start, cruising to victory in her opening 400m heat. The 35-year-old needs one more medal in Tokyo to become the most decorated female track and field athlete in Olympic history, a title she shares with Jamaica's Merlene Ottey with nine medals. Felix, the only woman in Olympic history with six athletics gold medals, romped home in 50.84sec. "It's nice to get going," Felix said. "It feels like I've been waiting forever. It felt good to get out there and bump it up for the semi." In the opening round of the men's 200m world champion Noah Lyles eased into the semifinals, winning in 20.18sec. Fellow qualifiers included his compatriot Kenny Bednarek in 20.01sec and 17-year-old US sensation Erriyon Knighton in 20.55sec. The qualifying rounds of the women's javelin competition featured upsets with Croatia's 2016 gold medallist Sara Kolak crashing out after failing to register a mark from three attempts. The Czech Republic's Barbora Spotakova was also a surprise early casualty, the 2008 and 2012 gold medallist finishing just outside the qualifying places to miss out on the final. In Tuesday's evening session of track and field all eyes will be on Jamaica's Elaine Thompson-Herah as she attempts to complete back-to-back Olympic 100m-200m gold medals. Thompson-Herah, the 100m and 200m champion from the Rio Olympics, has already successfully defended her 100m title in Tokyo and victory in the 200m final would see her become the first woman in history to win four individual sprint titles. Other highlights include the final of the women's 800m, where 19-year-old US prodigy Athing Mu will attempt to cap a dazzling debut season with a gold. Mu leads the world rankings this year with a time of 1min 56.07sec and impressed in her semifinal win on Friday. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.