JOHANNESBURG/CAPE TOWN - Health Minister Joe Phaahla on Friday said it was possible to have a better December and Christmas holiday period if as many people as possible got fully vaccinated by that time now that all adults were eligible for a COVID-19 jab. The department said young people were also allowed to go through to the vaccine sites already to go get their jab after registering either at home or on the site. WATCH: Do's and don'ts before and after your COVID-19 jab  The entire adult population is now eligible to get a COVID-19 vaccine as of Friday and Phaahla is hoping to get as many young people as possible to go to vaccine sites, register and get a jab. “The possibility of liberating ourselves from the clutches of COVID is now in our hands. We can have a better Christmas and even a better 2022. All we need to do is to take the first step and walk into a vaccination site.” Government is also hoping that those between the ages of 18 to 34 will be able to take their parents to the vaccine sites with them, with only 55% of the elderly population vaccinated so far. More than 184,000 people in this cohort registered on the EVDS portal in just the first seven hours since it opened at midnight. WATCH: Thousands of young South Africans queue to get COVID-19 jabs  ‘THIS IS YOUR TIME’ Phaahla said government is optimistic the expansion of COVID-19 inoculation to those younger than 35 will inspire more to come forward. Phaahla, joined by Western Cape Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo, has today visited Grand West where a public vaccination site for surrounding communities has come online. Grand West has opened an entertainment room where at least 100 jabs are being administered daily. Phaahla said 526,000 under 35s have already registered for vaccination. “This is your time; the future is yours. If you don’t protect yourself now, all the investment you are making in your skills, education, training is at threat.” Phaahla said with the 18-34 cohort lining up for inoculation from Friday, he's optimistic more people will follow suit. “Here is a chance; if we get this vaccination to spread out, we will see very few people get sick from the virus.” The Grand West vaccination site will be open to surrounding communities and the industrial area nearby until October. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.