JOHANNESBURG - The lawyer representing former Gauteng health chief financial officer Kabelo Lehloenya has insisted that Premier David Makhura and his government introduced the risk of harm that led to financial losses incurred from the allegedly unlawful PPE contracts. A Special Tribunal virtual sitting was on Thursday hearing arguments in the matter. This comes after the Special Investigating Unit’s application that Lehloenya, former department head Mkhululi Lukhele and the MEC for health in the province be held liable for the financial losses suffered by the department. Lehloenya’s lawyer, Sunday Ogunronbi, has argued that the decision by the National Treasury, which was implemented by the provincial government to centralise procurement of PPE at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, imposed “extraordinary and additional responsibility” on his client. “The alleged losses were a natural and direct consequence. So, when you factor the possession and the legal possession, those wrongful acts would have not occurred. There is sufficient close link between the loss caused by the first defendant and the business and affairs of the Gauteng provincial government.” He said the risk of harm created by the decision had a material effect on Lehloenya’s contract of employment. He further argues that the alleged losses incurred, which amount to hundreds of millions of rand were the natural direct consequence of the centralisation decision. Lehloenya wants Makhura and the government to be held jointly liable for the damages should she be found guilty of any wrongdoing. MAKHURA CAN’T PAY FOR LEHLOENYA’S WRONGDOING The lawyer representing Makhura and the provincial government has told the Special Tribunal that it would be constitutionally absurd if the court found that his clients should pay for Lehloenya’s wrongdoing. Advocate Ngwako Maenetje has argued that an employee of the State, who would otherwise enjoy State protection, lost indemnity once found to have intentionally committed wrongdoing. He was explaining why the pursuit of his clients - Makhura and the government - was pointless. “It flies against accountability, against her obligations to protect the assets of the State and it flies against the provisions of the treasurer regulations, which are made in terms of the PMFA.” Maenetje said even in the allegations made by Lehloenya, the conduct of the premier was in his official capacity, meaning he enjoyed State protection. But Lehloenya’s lawyers also say she made the case for joint liability of the third parties as she had already vacated office when some of the unlawful payments were made to suppliers. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.