JOHANNESBURG - Team South Africa has named 34 athletes across seven sporting codes for the upcoming Paralympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. With just eight days to go, the number of athletes selected for this year's squad is heavily weighted towards athletics, with 18 of the 34 athletes were selected for track and field events. The number of athletes selected is less compared to the 2016 Rio de Janeiro  Games where South Africa sent 45 athletes in 10 sporting codes. The Rio squad brought home 17 medals - seven gold, six silver and four bronze medals. The Paralympic Games will start on 24 August and end on 5 September. The Team SA  chef de mission for the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics is Leon Fleiser. “It’s a great honour and privilege for me. From a logistical sense, things have been going well and we are excited at the prospect of going to Tokyo and doing the country proud. The athletes come first and with the team support staff we have, we are hoping to make it a memorable experience for them,” he said. SASCOC President @BarryUgenius wishes the Chef de Mission, Management and Medical staff well ahead of the #Tokyo2020 Paralympics. #TeamSA pic.twitter.com/JseXMmNc0B  HOW ATHLETES QUALIFIED FOR TOKYO To be considered for the South African para-athletics team heading to Tokyo it's necessary to tick the following boxes: • An athlete must compete at SASAPD National Championships in the year of the team being selected. For absence due to medical reasons, a medical certificate must be supplied to the Athletics Convener. Athletes with medical certificates and a proven track record will be considered if selection criteria are met. • A top-ranking will not be an automatic qualification if selection criteria are not met. • The athlete must be in good standing with SASAPD, SASCOC, their club and province. • Must hold an IPC (International Paralympic Committee) licence for the 2021 calendar year. • Licence fees must be fully paid. • Must achieve at least B qualifications as per selection standards. • All field event performances must be with senior implements. READ: SASAPD championships last chance for SA para-athletes to qualify for Paralympics KNOW YOUR ATHLETES: KGOTHATSO MONTJANE SA wheelchair tennis ace recently made Wimbledon history by being the first black South African woman to reach the final at Wimbledon while also reaching the doubles final. The Limpopo-born athlete was the first African wheelchair tennis player to compete at Wimbledon when she was handed a wild card for the Wimbledon Grand Slam tournament in London, United Kingdom, in 2018. Montjane competed at her first Paralympics in Beijing (2008), then London and Rio de Janeiro. In 2018, she became the first African wheelchair tennis player to compete in the Australian Open, the French Open, Wimbledon and the US Open in the same calendar year. NTANDO MAHLANGU Mahlangu lined up at his first Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. At just 14-years-old - one of the youngest competitors at the Games - he finished second behind Great Britain’s Paralympic champion Richard Whitehead in the men’s 200m T42, setting a new African record (23.77) in the process. At the end of 2019 in the T61 category, he ranked first in the world in the 200m and holds a world record of 0:23.03. He also holds a world record of 0:48.31 and ranked first in the 400m and first in the 800m and long jump. MPUMELELO MHLONGO Mhlongo has competed in the 100m, 200m, long jump and high jump. The chemical engineering PhD student holds a world record in the 100m in his category (T44) of 11 sec. He ranks first in the 200m with a world record of 0:23.13. He holds a world record of 7.07m in the long jump and ranks first in the world. Congratulations to @TeamSA2020 going to @Paralympics #Tokyo2020 #Paralympics Special message from our President. pic.twitter.com/8htMmPHPC6  ANRUNE WEYERS Weyers is a two-time Paralympian and World Champion and it will be her third Paralympic Games. At the end of 2019, Weyers held a world record in the 400m of 0:55.60 in the T46/47 and ranked first in the world. READ MORE: 'I did what was needed to qualify for the paralympics'- Supa Piet The rest of the athletes in the long list are: ARCHERY Shaun Anderson, Philip Coates-Palgrave. Coach/manager: Barbara Manning. PARA-CYCLING Nicholas Pieter du Preez, Ernst van Dyk, Toni Mould. Coaches/management: Elrick Kulsen, Pieter Jansen, Gillian Evans, Walter Lutch. EQUESTRIAN Philippa Johnson-Dwyer, Cayla van der Walt. Coaches/management: Ingeborg Sanne, Chris Hazen, Robyn van Lijsdonk, Trisha Bell. PARA-SWIMMING Christian Sadie, Hendrik van der Merwe, Katherine Swanepoel, Alani Ferreira. Coaches/management: Theo Verster, Keith Jansen. TABLE TENNIS Theo Cogill. Coach/manager: Anver Lyners. WHEELCHAIR TENNIS Kgothatso Montjane, Mariska Venter, Eliphas Maripa, Leon Els. Coaches/management: Gerald Stoffberg, Saidi Moruame.   Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.