JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Premier David Makhura said he was concerned at the drop in people going for COVID-19 vaccines in some parts of the province. Makhura was speaking in the south of Joburg during a visit to vaccination sites on Tuesday. To date, the province has administered vaccines to more than 2.3 million people of the adult population out of more than 11 million. Makhura and his entourage visited the Lenasia south vaccination site and the Lawley pop-up site, which was launched on Tuesday. The south is one of the lowest vaccinated regions in the City of Johannesburg. In the past seven days, Gauteng has witnessed a decline in the number of people visiting sites. Makhura said this was worrying: “We are concerned about the vaccination rate that has slowed down because the milestone of 1 million vaccinations in Johannesburg is very important.” The province has only hit 50% of its target for the rollout among people over the age of 60. And the City of Joburg alone has vaccinated more than a million people. Today we visited the Lenasia South Hospital & Lawley Pop-Up vaccination sites in the @CityofJoburgZA. Again, I want to assure young people between the ages of 18-34 that we have heard your calls & soon and very soon we will open up vaccination sites for you. #WeChooseVaccination pic.twitter.com/TCIN6ruFZS  [In Pictures] Lawley Pop-Up vaccination site. Social partners play an integral role in our fight against #COVID19. Today they have come out to assist in the vaccination drive in Gauteng. We continue to encourage all eligible persons to go out and get vaccinated. pic.twitter.com/uJKpopwi5R  WATCH: Premier @David_Makhura and mayor @matongo_jolidee witness the mobile vaccination of Thembekile Tshabalala (41) during the door-to-door at Lawley. #WeChooseVaccination pic.twitter.com/skjDRfyhX0  WATCH: Premier @David_Makhura, mayor @matongo_jolidee and MMC @Loyiso_Masuku on a door-to-door at Lawley encouraging the community, particularly the men, to go out and get the jab. #WeChooseVaccination pic.twitter.com/unZBDVffoZ  TAKING VACCINE DRIVE TO THE PEOPLE Makhura said they were looking at innovative ways of reaching as many communities across the province as possible with their vaccination campaign. “We want all these workers in the different sectors to also vaccinate.” The past seven days has seen a low uptake of vaccines. He said they would ramp up their rollout programme in various parts of the province. “We have opened a lot of new vaccine sites in various parts of Gauteng including the drive-through vaccination sites.” Makhura said they had enough vaccines, calling on residents to visit sites to get their jabs. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.