JOHANNESBURG - Action SA leader Herman Mashaba said newly-elected Joburg Mayor Jolidee Matongo had nothing to offer the metro. Mashaba was once a DA mayor of Joburg and is now vying to be elected back to that position but under his new party, Action SA. Matongo's election comes after Mayor Geoff Makhubo died of COVID-19 related complications last month. Mashaba said the new mayor propped and applauded corruption. "Matongo can offer Joburg residents nothing new except continued corruption and broken service delivery. For Johannesburg to undergo a true renewal, residents must be given their Constitutionally enshrined opportunity to go to the polls and finally vote the ANC out," he said in a Tweet. Mashaba also accused the DA in Joburg, which did not field a mayoral candidate, of working with the ANC in this regard. Action SA’s Sabelo Chalufu said: “By ensuring Matongo’s unopposed election, the DA has put to bed any suspicion of their desire to form part of the ANC-led coalition as its right-wing faction.” By ensuring Matongos unopposed election, the DA has put to bed any suspicion of their desire to form part of an ANC-led coalition.The ANC and DA have once again banded together to put their own narrow interests first and consign those of the residents to the far back.  Meanwhile, Matongo has moved the announcement of his mayoral committee from Tuesday evening to Wednesday morning. #JoburgUpdates JUST IN The Executive Mayor @matongo_jolidee is expected to announce members of his Mayoral Committee (MMCs) tomorrow morning (11 Aug). The swearing-in ceremony will be held @joburgtheatre from 10am, inside the Lesedi Boardroom #JoburgMayor #WeServeJoburg ^GZ pic.twitter.com/S0firL4xSM  'TIME IS NOT ON OUR SIDE' Matongo has committed himself to ensuring that the little time he has in office is dedicated to seeing through government’s plans and the city’s budget being spent on service delivery. He is no stranger to members of the media, having previously played the role of ANC Joburg spokesperson, he went on to become the MMC of Finance for the city. He said time was not on their side: “If you don’t do your work, we don’t have time because the ANC expects us to work to have something to show to the electorate.” Matongo said the city had plenty of priorities including navigating COVID-19 with plans under way to assist those affected by recent violence and looting. “We have already instructed the team to come up with things like the rates holiday for the shopping centre to ensure that we at least provide some relief.” Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.