CAPE TOWN - Less than a day after a peace accord between warring taxi factions, police are reporting another taxi shooting. A man was shot and killed on Tuesday afternoon at the Joe Slovo taxi rank in Milnerton. The police's Joseph Swartbooi said: “Upon arrival, law enforcement found a body of a 56-year-old man with visible gunshots to his face and chest. The unknown suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. The motive for the attack is possible taxi-related.” It's not yet clear whether this is related to the ongoing conflict over Route 97. That route has been at the centre of the bloody taxi war that's left more than 80 people dead since the start of this year. On Monday, provincial and national authorities announced a ceasefire and peace accord between the taxi operators contesting the route. The route that sparked the bloody conflict is still closed despite a commitment by CATA and Codeta to work through their issues in arbitration. Those needing to get to work on Route 97 now have to choose between trains or busses laid on to fill the gap. But some commuters who travel from Mbekweni to Kraaifontein said it was not really working, as buses were more expensive and trains were not always on time. Western Cape Transport MEC Daylin Mitchell said he would not reopen Route 97 until he was certain the violence had come to an end. PRIVATE SECURITY FIRMS 'INVOLVED' Cele said law enforcement officials were looking into the role of private security firms in perpetrating violence in Phoenix last month. He said as law enforcement officials investigated private security firms operating in Phoenix, the response of local police to the criminality was also being probed. “Working closely with the private security industry, the team of investigators had seized 152 firearms from four private security companies working in the area” The minister said calm had now been restored in the community. There has been support in the area for the deployment of the SANDF to help the police and its specialised units such as public order police and tactical response teams. Cele said they remained on high alert. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.