DURBAN - Scores of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members have started making their way to the Phoenix police station as part of a demonstrations against mass killings in the area during last month’s civil unrest. Thursday's march is being led by the party's secretary general Marshall Dlamini, who said they were demonstrating against what he called racist Indians. At the same time, DA leader John Steenhuisen has taken issue with the march, calling it racist but the EFF has lambasted him. EFF members have started gathering in Phoenix - north of Durban. They plan to stage demonstrations after at least 36 people were killed in this community during last weeks civil unrest. @NkoRaphael pic.twitter.com/9wOKC4WWwm  [In Pictures]: The march is now underway in Phoenix.We demand that those racist criminals account for the lives of our people they butchered like chickens. #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/0qHexTFPOI  The EFF’s KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Vusi Khoza has called out Steenhuisen after he criticised their march. “In our own country, in our own land, a small white boy must tell us where we can march. It is not going to happen.” EFF MP Hlengiwe Mkhaliphi said they wanted justice for at least 36 people killed there during last month's civil unrest. “We want to know how many have been arrested and how far we are with the investigation and we must see their faces, because whenever it’s a black person who is arrested, we normally see their face." There is a strong law enforcement presence there but the EFF has promised to ensure a peaceful protest. [In Pictures]: Despite the attainment of political freedom, Black people continue to be subjected to racism by institutions, right-wingers, and Indians in this country. Black life does not matter, and is not valued in this country. That needs to come to an end NOW #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/tpX7Ixl7UL  [In Pictures]: Our SG @DlaminiMarshall has arrived in Phoenix for the March against racist Indians who have given themselves authority over Black life.The police have taken a side in support of the racist Indians as they deny Ground Forces access to the march. #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/Nsdcn9qAbg  [VIDEO ]: Police have blocked the entrance in Phoenix.We will walk. Nothing will stop us! #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/dLJPGRgYXb  [VIDEO ]: Sifikile e Phoenix.It is here that Black people where murdered by racist Indians. #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/NmS2yy6Lbq  [In Pictures]: Fighters and Ground Forces arriving in Phoenix this morning.The EFF in eThekwini is marching in Phoenix today against racist Indians who murdered our people. #EFFinPhoenix pic.twitter.com/MgChdbJgPX  RESIDENTS FEEL ‘THREATENED’ There appears to be a sense of fear among business owners on the Phoenix highway where the EFF is demonstrating. Mkhaliphi said: “We are against the racism in Phoenix; they have brutally killed our people here in Phoenix, so we are marching against that. We are going to demand justice for the people that have been killed here.” According to one resident, many there have been left unsettled: “I was told by a group of Indian people to not join the march, I asked them why not and they said they feel threatened. There was one police officer who told me not to stand outside.” Several residents can be seen curiously looking at the demonstrators from their balconies and yards. The protest has, so far, largely remained peaceful amid the watchful eye of various law enforcement bodies deployed there on Thursday. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.