KABUL - The Taliban raced closer to a complete military takeover of Afghanistan Sunday after capturing more major cities, leaving only the isolated capital Kabul for them to conquer. The insurgents took control of the key eastern city of Jalalabad on Sunday, just hours after the seizing the northern anti-Taliban bastion of Mazar-i-Sharif - extending an astonishing rout of government forces and warlord militias achieved in just 10 days. "We woke up this morning to the Taliban white flags all over the city. They entered without fighting," said Jalalabad resident Ahmad Wali, confirming a claim on social media made by the Taliban. President Ashraf Ghani's government appeared to be left with few options as the Taliban effectively surrounded Kabul - either prepare for a bloody fight for the capital or capitulate. On Saturday he sought to project a semblance of authority with a national address in which he spoke of "re-mobilising" the military while seeking a "political solution" to the crisis. But the loss of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jalalabad are huge back-to-back blows for Ghani and his government. It left the Taliban - who have fighters less than an hour's drive from Kabul - holding all the cards in any negotiated surrender of the capital. President Joe Biden ordered the deployment of an additional 1,000 US troops to help secure the emergency evacuation from Kabul of embassy employees and thousands of Afghans who worked for American forces and now fear Taliban reprisals. That was on top of the 3,000 American soldiers deployed in recent days, and 1,000 left in-country after Biden announced in May that the final withdrawal of the 20-year military presence in Afghanistan would be completed by September 11. That decision has come under increased scrutiny given the collapse of the Afghan armed forces, but he insisted Saturday there was no choice. "I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan - two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth," Biden said. Videos posted on pro-Taliban social media accounts showed the group's heavily armed fighters in cities across the country, waving white flags and greeting locals. Most of the fighters appeared young, suggesting they were most likely infants or unborn when the Taliban was toppled from power in 2001 by the US and their warlord allies. HEAVY FIGHTINGIn Mazar-i-Sharif, Taliban fighters quickly took charge. "They are parading on their vehicles and motorbikes, firing into the air in celebration," said Atiqullah Ghayor, who lives near the city's famed blue mosque. Warlords Abdul Rashid Dostum and Atta Mohammad Noor, who had led a militia resistance in the city to support government forces, had fled to Uzbekistan, about 30km to the north, an aide to Noor said. Noor later tweeted that they had been betrayed by the military and were in a "safe place", adding: "I have a lot of untold stories that I will share in due course." As the Taliban closed in on the capital, panicked residents swarmed banks for a second-straight day, hoping to withdraw their savings. Many were already resigned to the Taliban taking power. "My only wish is that their return leads to peace. That is all we want," said Kabul shopkeeper Tariq Nezami. In his first address to the nation since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive, Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence, but offered few specifics on what his administration was planning. The presidential palace later said: "A delegation with authority should soon be appointed by the government and be ready for negotiation." APPREHENSION AND FEARFor the tens of thousands who have sought refuge in Kabul in recent weeks, the overwhelming mood was one of apprehension and fear. One doctor who arrived in the capital with his 35-strong family from Kunduz said he planned to return today. "I am worried there will be a lot of fighting here. I would rather return home, where I know it has stopped," he told AFP, asking not to be named. The scale and speed of their advance have shocked Afghans and the US-led alliance that poured billions into the country after toppling the insurgents in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. Individual Afghan soldiers, units and even whole divisions have surrendered - handing the Taliban even more vehicles and military hardware for their lightning advance. A TIMELINE OF THE TALIBAN’S SWEEPING OFFENSIVE IN AFGHANISTAN Here is a look at the three months since their sweeping offensive began: FIERCE FIGHTINGIn early May, NATO begins a final withdrawal of its mission in Afghanistan involving 9,600 soldiers - 2,500 of them American. Intense fighting soon breaks out between the Taliban and government forces in southern Helmand province. A bomb blast outside a girls' school on May 8 in Kabul kills 85, mostly pupils. The deadliest attack in a year is blamed on the Taliban, though they do not claim it. TALIBAN ADVANCEUS forces withdraw from one of Afghanistan's largest air bases in Kandahar, the country's second-biggest city, in mid-May. The insurgents then seize districts in Wardak province near Kabul, and in the key province of Ghazni, which straddles roads connecting the capital to Kandahar. By mid-June they have captured several districts in northern provinces, forcing military retreats. The Taliban take control of the main Shir Khan Bandar border crossing with Tajikistan on 22 June, prompting the Central Asian country to check the combat readiness of its armed forces. US LEAVES BAGRAMOfficials on 2 July announce the departure of all American and NATO troops from Bagram, Afghanistan's biggest air base, which served as the linchpin of US-led operations in the country for two decades. Two days later, the Taliban seize the key district of Panjwai in Kandahar, the insurgents' birthplace and former bastion. The Taliban announce the capture of Islam Qala, Afghanistan's biggest border crossing with Iran, on 9 July. On 14 July, the insurgents take control of the Spin Boldak border crossing with Pakistan, a major trade route between the two countries. URBAN ONSLAUGHTThe Taliban offensive escalates sharply with a new focus on urban centres as the insurgents attack the cities of Lashkar Gah, Kandahar and Herat. The United States and Britain say the Taliban may have committed war crimes, accusing the insurgents of "massacring civilians" in the town of Spin Boldak. Eight people are killed on 3 August in a coordinated Taliban-claimed bomb and gun attack targeting the Afghan defence minister and several lawmakers in Kabul. The Taliban shoot dead the head of the Afghan government's media information centre at a mosque in the capital on 6 August. PROVINCIAL CAPITALS FALLThe Taliban capture their first Afghan provincial capital, the city of Zaranj in southwestern Nimroz, taking it "without a fight". The following days several other northern cities fall: Sheberghan, Kunduz, Sar-e-Pul, Taloqan, Aibak, Farah and Pul-e-Khumri. Despite the bloodshed and sweeping advances, US President Joe Biden gives no suggestion he will delay the withdrawal deadline. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani flies to the besieged northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif on 11 August to rally his forces. But his visit is overshadowed by the surrender of hundreds of Afghan soldiers in nearby Kunduz and the overnight capture of a ninth provincial capital, Faizabad. WITHIN REACH OF KABULThe Taliban capture Ghazni, 150km southwest of Kabul, on 12 August. Herat falls in the west the same day, and a day later the Taliban capture Kandahar and Lashkar Gah in the south. The cities of Asadabad and Gardez follow on Saturday with Mazar-i-Sharif, which President Ghani had visited just three days earlier. Jalalabad is taken over by the insurgents early on Sunday, leaving Kabul the only remaining major Afghan city still under government control. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.