JOHANNESBURG - Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi said that he was saddened by the passing of AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. The king passed away in the early hours of Friday morning in hospital. He was 72. READ: Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini dies aged 72 Buthelezi, who is related to the king, said that healthcare workers did everything they could to treat the monarch but in the end, he was reunited with his ancestors. #KingZwelithini The IFP has paid tribute to King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. "This comes as a terrible blow to His Majesty’s people and to the people of South Africa. On behalf of the IFP, I can only express my deepest condolences," said IFP President Velenkosini Hlabisa.  In an address carried on the public broadcaster, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi updated the nation on the passing of the king. “He's gone. He has reunited with our forefathers. I confirm this with a heavy heart," said Buthelezi. Buthelezi said that funeral arrangements for Ongangezwe Lakhe, as the king was popularly known, would be communicated after the Zulu royal family has met. Buthelezi has expressed gratitude to those who have paid tribute to King Zwelithini. He said that the Zulu nation can mourn the king by suspending events and ceremonies until he is laid to rest. Deeply saddened by the news of the passing of Isilo Samabandla, His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. pic.twitter.com/2mtYLnRQ5w  The Zulu royal house thanked South Africans for their prayers and support throughout AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini's illness. He spent weeks in hospital for what was initially reported to be a problem with his blood glucose levels. President Cyril Ramaphosa added to the many voices that paid tribute to the late king. He said that the king would be remembered as a beloved and visionary monarch. The KwaZulu-Natal government cancelled all activities that had been planned for Friday in the wake of the AmaZulu king's death. The provincial executive lead by Premier Sihle Zikalala is expected to map the way forward at a media briefing, on how the Zulu kingdom would navigate the news of the king's passing. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.