JOHANNESBURG - Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has again denied that he set up a rogue unit within the South African Revenue Service (Sars). Gordhan was cross-examined by Tom Moyane's lawyer advocate Dali Mpofu at the state capture commission on Tuesday. Mpofu said some of the members of the unit confessed to Moyane but Gordhan denies instructing anyone to work there. “Customs and tax units around the world have units, I said go to the website of the World Customs Organisation you will see customs bodies have those units,” Gordhan said there was nothing wrong with a tax authority investigating non-compliance. “Accurately, it was an investigative unit, it wasn’t a rogue unit. It was an investigating unit that was going to catch the rogues who are not paying tax.” But Mpofu said members of the so-called rogue unit spilt the beans: “Lombard and De Vaal confessed to Mr Moyane about their involvement and of Mr Gordhan in the rogue unit activities including bugging the offices of the National Prosecuting Authority.” Mpofu said Moyane laid a criminal complaint against Gordhan because of these allegations but Gordhan said the unit never took off because it didn’t have funding. ‘SHUT UP WHEN I’M SPEAKING’ Moyane's cross-examination of Gordhan at the state capture commission ended with dramatic exchanged again on Tuesday night. Moyane's lawyer told Gordhan’s lawyer to shut up, prompting intervention from Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Mpofu then threatened to leave: “Chair, I’m on the floor really I can’t stand this. This cannot be happening for the third time. Ms Le Roux must shut up when I’m speaking. You too, Mr Gordhan.” Gordhan's lawyer Michelle Le Roux wanted him to explain how he feels when he’s called racist. The heckling was always expected but not with the chair. Zondo: “Mr Mpofu, I am in charge here please sit down.” Mpofu: “But, I’m still talking chair, she butted in.” Zondo: “I want to hear her explanation then hear you.” Mpofu: “Why must I be the one to sit down?” Zondo: “But Mr Mpofu, I am in charge here sit down please. I’ll hear her then I’ll hear you.” Mpofu: “Maybe we should leave if we are not allowed to speak and you allow interruptions.” Zondo: “You are going to be allowed to speak.” Zondo eventually didn’t allow Gordhan to comment, he said the particular line of questioning was irrelevant to the work of the commission. WATCH: Mpofu to Gordhan's advocate: "Ms. Le Roux must shut up when I'm speaking."  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.