JOHANNESBURG - "Oh, it's just like the flu. Everyone's making a big deal out of nothing." Such words were common in the first few months when coronavirus hit countries around the world at different times, with South Africa being no exception. But, with over 50,000 deaths here at home a year later, what we've learnt over 12 months has drastically changed our understanding of the virus, our approach to the pandemic and what the rest of our lives would look like. On 5 March 2021, South Africa marked one year since the first case of coronavirus was recorded  Eyewitness News asked its readers what some of the fundamental things they learnt during COVID-19 were. May responses were about dealing with the virus itself and adjusting to life during the pandemic. Here's a breakdown of what they had to say. ONLINE LEARNING & THE DIGITAL DIVIDE If we thought we knew just how bad our access to digital tools and major discrepancies between our country’s haves and the have-nots are, COVID-19 really drove the point home with online learning, especially as President Cyril Ramaphosa continues to look towards the fourth industrial revolution. During our harder lockdowns, children and students could not travel to schools and many raised alarms about some who did not have access to at-home teaching and tutors, which would leave most of the country’s learning population behind. South Africa’s internet penetration stands at just over 50%, according to German consumer research company Statista. Our Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga had concerns our matriculation numbers would not be as high as they were due to disruptions in schooling, while private schools boasted pass rates around similar numbers in the past. Frustrated parents and guardians, bored children and being forced to juggle home learning and life, in general, made us realise how little we appreciate and pay our teachers. MYTHS BUSTED When COVID-19 began spreading rapidly around the world, it invoked the inner doctor in many of us. All of a sudden, Twitter and Facebook "epidemiologists" sprang up with various theories on how the virus spreads and how lethal it is. On the flip side, organisations such as the World Health Organization, alongside medical experts around the world, were grappling with figuring out exactly how the virus works and how to prevent infection. Here is some of what changed over the course of a year:  WHAT WE'RE STILL GETTING WRONG Despite the information we now have on the virus and the experience, there are still some things we're just not getting right.  What will the next year teach us? We can only hope the lessons won't be as harsh as the first year's teachings. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.