KWAZULU-NATAL - Residents in northern KwaZulu-Natal are calling on people of Zulu descent around the world to mourn the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini. The monarch died in the early hours of Friday morning at a Durban hospital. King Zwelithini had been receiving medical care for high glucose levels. READ: Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini dies aged 72 Several residents that Eyewitness News spoke to said that they were still struggling to come to terms with the passing of Amazulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. They said the monarch was a highly revered figure in this area and seen as an activist for indigenous people's rights. Nokuthula Shandu said that they planned to suspend all planned festivities. "Zulu culture states that when a king has passed on, we all have to mourn and postpone all activities until the king has been laid to rest." ALSO READ: Ramaphosa declares special official funeral for King Goodwill Zwelithini But there were some residents who expressed indifference and said that they would continue with their normal lives despite the Zulu monarch's passing. I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to the Royal House, the Zulu Nation and South Africa as a whole for the untimely passing of Isilo Samabandla, King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu.Isizwe siyakhala, alwehlanga lungehlanga. Lala ngoxolo Silo Samabandla. pic.twitter.com/xSnXECxROv  The President, Dr. Patrice Motsepe, the Board, Management, Technical Team, Players and Staff of Mamelodi Sundowns FC & the entire Masandawana Family express their deepest condolences to the Zulu Royal Family. The club is saddened by the passing of... pic.twitter.com/myanfVVJhY  CHAMPION OF LOCAL CUSTOMS Some residents in northern KwaZulu-Natal said that they would remember the late king as a source of wisdom and a cultural ambassador. Nombuso Mkhize said that she would miss his guidance during the annual reed dance. “I’m really saddened by the king’s passing. I grew up listening to his wise words during the annual reed dance." Another resident said that the late monarch was a champion of local customs. “We practiced our culture with pride through his support. The annual reed dance, which he championed, kept our children well behaved,” she said. Prime minister to the Zulu monarch, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, said that funeral arrangements would be announced once the royal family had met. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.