JOHANESBURG – “It’s the last day of service for more than 600 SABC employees.” That’s what brought SABC newsreader Desiree Chauke to tears on Wednesday as she read the story about the public broadcaster’s concluded retrenchments. Over 600 employees at the SABC were retrenched after the board announced last year that it would undergo a retrenchment process to try and trim its R2.4 billion annual salary bill of 3,167 employees. Chauke was in the middle of reading her bulletin when she broke down. “… It [SABC] will transition to a new structure from the 1st of April… I apologise I’m not able to finish that, can I ask my producers to take a break.” This is heartbreaking demmit #SABCRETRENCHMENT pic.twitter.com/TKYiTIftYe  Meanwhile, the hashtag #SABCRetrenchments started trending on Twitter as it would be the over 600 workers’ last day at the public broadcaster. What wouldve been my last day of maternity leave marks the last day of my journalism career. I had more highs than lows. I loved my job, told horrific & stories that changed peoples lives, met really wonderful people who supported me. Ngiyabonga kakhulu #SABCRetrenchments  the SABC played such a huge role in my career, its so painful to witness all this! My thoughts go out to all the staff & families impacted by the #SABCRetrenchments  If youre still employed, count yourself blessedJust  imagine 621 people losing jobs during these hard times.You should be grateful#SABCRetrenchments pic.twitter.com/xMMoOU1yr7  Understandably, a larger part of my job entails interacting on a regularly basis with journalists and content producers from various media houses, including the SABC. My heart bleeds for those who have been affected by #SABCRetrenchment. Its nothing short of heartbreaking  If your business is over-resourced with humans, a retrenchment process is a necessary evil. This is why SOEs are in disrepute- they are not run like businesses. #SABCretrenchment #badbusiness #ANC  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS or Android device.