CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa has told the state capture inquiry that corruption-accused members of the African National Congress (ANC) who refused to step aside would be suspended. He said this was one of the actions being taken by the ANC to address corruption within its ranks and in government. Ramaphosa is appearing before the Zondo Commission on Wednesday in his capacity as ANC president. WATCH LIVE: Ramaphosa testifies at state capture [part 2]  President Ramaphosa is on record saying the ANC was accused number one when it came to corruption. He’s on Wednesday acknowledged the governing party does have corruption within its ranks and is now taking measures to deal with it. READ: ANC president Ramaphosa’s opening statement at Zondo inquiry In opening remarks at the state capture inquiry, Ramaphosa reiterated those who failed to step aside would be suspended. “Such members who do not step aside may be summarily suspended. Furthermore, members of the ANC who are reported to be involved in corrupt and other serious criminal practices must go to the ANC’s Integrity Commission and provide a credible explanation for these allegations or reports.” LIVE BLOG: ANC has decided to return to its founding values - Ramaphosa His remarks come just days before the end of the party’s 30-day deadline for party members accused of corruption to step aside. Ramaphosa said those ultimately convicted of corruption or other serious crimes must resign from leadership positions and face disciplinary action. UNQUALIFIED MANAGERS The president said the ANC government couldn’t fire all 3,301 senior managers who were not qualified for their positions. But he said ministers and other public servants were willing to attend the school of governance to professionalise the public service. The commission has been detailing the impact of cadre deployment and Advocate Paul Pretorius cited statistics that show how many managers are unqualified. “As of 15 February 2021, there are currently a total of 9,477 senior managers employed in the public service. Out of those, 3,301 members don’t have the required qualifications.” But Ramaphosa said the ANC was trying to correct this by training all civil servants, including himself. “We are not about to take those people out. If anything, we as the state is to blame for bringing in people who are ill-qualified, we need to address the problem. We need to address if humanely, which calls on us to be innovative and creative on how we’re going to capacitate all those people. It’s not like they are dunderheads, or they do nothing, they’re doing something, and we just need to channel their capabilities and knowledge.” Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo asked Ramaphosa about the role of his deployment committee in the appointment of boards that eroded SOEs. “What criteria was following in appointing people to those boards? How can these SOEs be where they are now?” Ramaphosa said ministers told the ANC when there were vacancies but proper processes were still followed including advertising to get the best candidates. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.