JOHANNESBURG - The memorial service for much-loved medical doctor Sindi van Zyl is currently under way in Johannesburg on Thursday afternoon. Van Zyl succumbed to COVID-19 at the weekend after spending several weeks in an intensive care unit. Her passing has been met with shock, with many taking to social media to share experiences of how she often assisted them through their own medical challenges. Mourners who attended today's remembrance were glad in pink in celebration of what many say was her "colourful personality". You are sorely missed Diva! #ADressForSindi pic.twitter.com/AVE7wNKAIZ  Had to take part. May her soul rest in peace #ADressForSindi pic.twitter.com/3XDG3JpcqG  I dont have a lot of dresses with pockets. But here, I was 6 months pregnant and Dr Sindi liked my post when I posted it, so I hope this counts as #ADressForSindi  pic.twitter.com/3YO2QzNfbd  A beautiful tribute for an amazing person #ADressForSindi pic.twitter.com/Wh2auRbaEj  A friend, who has been introduced as Portia, said Van Zyl lived several lifetimes in her 45 years on Earth. “She got a sense of community from her beloved mother’s political activism and her open-door policy that turned her house into a home. Accompanying her grandmother to hospital made four-year-old Sindi decide to become a doctor. True to character, she put her heart and soul into becoming the model learner she dreamed throughout her life.” She has been remembered as a compassionate champion of generosity, love and kindness. Van Zyl's children Manie and Nandi gave a moving tribute to their mother, saying she was an amazing friend, sister and wife. “She made her patients feel like family and not just patients. She was powerful, strong and good at many things. I remember when we went to Sun City and we thought she couldn’t swim but she jumped in the water and proved us wrong; she liked to surprise people like that.” The Caramellos, as she affectionately called them, also shared what they considered to be Van Zyl's favourite things. “She loved God, google and Louis Vuitton. She loved wearing perfume and cared a lot about how she smelled, she was the best mom anyone could ask for.” Van Zyl will be laid to rest in a private ceremony later on Thursday. She is survived by her husband and two children. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.