JOHANNESBURG - Journalist, author and son of anti-apartheid struggle veterans Vusi and Girlie Pikoli, Phumlani Pikoli, passed away on Sunday, his parents announced. Pikoli (33), who previously worked as a multimedia journalist at Eyewitness News and authored the book Born Freeloaders, was found dead at his apartment in Johannesburg. The book won the K Sello Duiker Memorial Literary Award in 2020. His creative work has been showcased and widely published in South African media. In a statement released on Monday, it was said that his parents travelled up to Johannesburg to check on him after they couldn't reach him on his cellphone. He was the son of Girlie and former National Prosecuting Authority head Vusi Pikoli. His parents were the ones who discovered his body lying on his bed. The cause of death is unknown at this stage, the statement said, and an investigation was under way. The family said a memorial service would be held on Wednesday and Pikoli would be laid to rest on Friday. Meanwhile, the media and creative fraternities have been sending their condolences to the family. Our condolences to the Pikoli family and friends of Phumlani. https://t.co/4rXl4plzwD  So shocked to hear about the passing of #PhumlaniPikoli. Such a good writer. May his soul rest in peace. Read and reviewed one of his books. @PanMacmillanSA pic.twitter.com/8mcVfQPGem  I cant believe this. I am heartbroken. Rest In Power friend! Yho! This is too much I am going to miss you Phumlani Pikoli (@scoutgumbee) pic.twitter.com/Urozqt595U  Rest easy my Gee. You did good. #RIPPhumlaniPikoliPhumlani Pikoli pic.twitter.com/Ml7Dtqo83y  .@scoutgumbee was hella inspiring and energetic. We are grateful to have experienced his talent from close range. Heres a thread of some things he wrote, shared and filmed for us, starting with this, prior to the publication of Born Freeloaders https://t.co/tyTs1IrPWs  Pan Macmillan is deeply saddened by the passing of Phumlani Pikoli, a bright light who is gone too soon. pic.twitter.com/BcQP31XFkJ  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.