JOHANNESBURG - The Health Department is on a mission to vaccinate as many people as possible as a possible third wave of the coronavirus looms in South Africa. Its electronic vaccination data system  went live on Friday, 16 April, allowing elderly South Africans to register to get their COVID-19 vaccine when the second phase of the rollout programme starts. Phase two is said to commence from mid-May to the end of October. READ: More than 343k elderly S.Africans registered for COVID-19 vaccine rollout so far Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said that if the government received the number of vaccines committed to by the manufacturers, 46.2 million South Africans would be inoculated by March 2022. This excluded the 500,000 people that would be vaccinated under the Sisonke protocol. The minister was hopeful that a further 1.2 million doses would arrive this quarter as promised by the Covax facility. READ MORE: Mkhize satisfied with WC’s preparedness for vaccine rollout Health Minister Zweli Mkhize is on a countrywide tour to assess the readiness of provinces for the mass vaccination campaign. Below are the vaccination centres in KwaZulu-Natal and how to register: Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital800 Vusi Mzimela Rd, Umkumbaan, Durban, 4091 Prince Mshiyeni Memorial HospitalGriffiths Mxenge Hwy, Umlazi V, Umlazi, 4060 General Justice Gizenga MpanzaCnr King Shaka & Paterson Street, Kwadukuza, 4449 Edendale Hospital89 Selby Msimang Rd, Plessislaer, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 Madadeni HospitalMadadeni Road, Madadeni, Newcastle, 2951 Netcare St. Augustine's Hospital107 J.B. Marks Rd, Bulwer, Berea, 4001 6 Steps to getting vaccinated for senior citizens 60 years and above #COVID19VaccineSA #IChooseVaccination #CoronaVirusSA pic.twitter.com/ORL1iTQLnJ  Here is the registration guide to the Electronic Vaccination Data System (EVDS) for senior citizens aged 60 years and above. #COVID19VaccineSA #IChooseVaccination #CoronaVirusSA pic.twitter.com/6kshbT8WPy  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.