JOHANNESBURG- African National Congress (ANC) veteran Tokyo Sexwale on Thursday said he couldn’t give details of the investigation by the Hawks into a so-called heritage fund after reports that he was scammed. This comes after he appeared on eNCA saying that the fund had brought a huge sum of money into the country, which was held by the South African Reserve Bank. This was to pay for free education and bullet trains among others. He has claimed that billions of rands disappeared. However, the Reserve Bank said it had no record of the money and Sexwale appeared to have been scammed. READ: How to spot a 419 scam But he insists he had shown certain documents to Reserve Bank Governor Lesetja Kganyago, proving that money went missing. “Documents that pointed out to malfeasance and criminality that was happening inside the bank. Malfeasance, criminality and shenanigans were happening inside the bank, that’s what the documents are saying; they had names of individuals, how money has been moved from this account and where it went into the commercial banks.” WATCH LIVE: Tokyo Sexwale sets the record straight on heritage fund  During an interview on eNCA over the weekend, Sexwale claimed that billions meant for a heritage fund had been stolen. He said the fund had offered billions of rands to assist with efforts to fight the impact of COVID-19, as well as the debt of university students. "This fund is there, but in the process of making sure it's brought into the economy, we have found some resistance, and when we checked the resistance, we found that part of this money has been stolen." Sexwale said that the matter was urgently raised with Minister of Finance Tito Mboweni and his predecessor, as well as the ANC top six and President Cyril Ramaphosa. Sexwale on Thursday said he asked the president, finance minister, and Reserve Bank governor for help to verify a so-called White Spiritual Boy fund. He has claimed that billions of rands disappeared after being deposited with the Reserve Bank. Sexwale insists he had shown certain documents to the president and others: “The president, the governor and minister had this at their disposal and tremendous technologies to check this two years ago.” However, he said there was no response and pointed a finger at them for failing to act: “Don’t tell me I’ve been scammed. Don’t scam me in public, don’t scam the public, and don’t scam the media.” BLUE TICKEDOrdinarily, a blue tick on WhatsApp is enough to leave one stewing for several hours. Worse if you are a billionaire, a former liberation hero, former premier and former minister. A visibly irritated Sexwale has attempted to take back the narrative following his claims of the heritage fund being ridiculed on social media. The struggle veteran also relayed to journalists how various government leaders ignored his efforts to help out. Earlier, Sexwale said the other mandate holder of the fund, Godwin Webb, was unable to make it to the media conference – having being called in by his doctor over lung issues. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.