CAPE TOWN - Mango Airlines has on Wednesday apologised for its flight interruptions and delays as hundreds of passengers are left stranded due to the suspension of flights. Senior management is locked in urgent discussions with all partners about financial issues including outstanding payments to Airports Company of South Africa. The low-cost carrier said that none of its flights scheduled for Wednesday morning had taken off as it was unable to process passengers' information on the system at the check-in counters. READ: Mango confirms all flights currently suspended but airline not grounded This comes amid concerns that the state domestic airline might not have money to pay salaries. There are also reports that it will go into business rescue as it awaits money from the Department of Public Enterprises. Mango spokesperson Benediction Zubane said: “We do anticipate that this will have a domino effect on our operations today. What I can tell our customers is to be calm as we try to resolve the issue, in due course, we should be able to come back with an update.” Mango has confirmed flights will resume on Thursday after an agreement was reached with the airport's company. The SAA subsidiary was forced to suspend operations due to a non-payment issue with ACSA. The airline said  it's in talks with the Public Enterprises Department to resolve the issue. Mango is facing financial uncertainty after a delay in government funding which could see it stop operating from next week and enter into business rescue. Meanwhile, Mango passengers at Cape Town International Airport are still awaiting communication on what to do next. Some Mango passengers have been at the airport since 9 o'clock Wednesday morning and said they have yet to hear from the low-cost airline. The Mango check in counter has no staff in sight. However, there are passengers waiting for communication. “I’m meant to be on a flight back to Durban today but unfortunately the has been no communication from Mango” said one passenger. “ I got a message in the morning to say to move to 13h30 then never heard from them since I’m stuck here at Cape Town International with my wife For now, passengers can only hope to fly out to their respective destinations. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.