PARKTOWN - Health Minister Zweli Mkhize on Thursday said he was happy about the progress with vaccinations in Gauteng. Mkhize is inspecting sites ahead of the phase two vaccination programme. READ: Health Dept working on revised strategy for COVID-19 vaccine rollout - Mkhize Embarking on a countrywide tour to assess the readiness of Provinces for the mass vaccination campaign. Starting today at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital in Gauteng Province- a significant start as we celebrate Charlotte Maxeke in the year of her 150 birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/jQnSuimNzn  Mkhize began with a visit to the Charlotte Maxeke Hospital in Parktown. ALSO READ: Health Dept signs deal with Pfizer for 20m COVID-19 vaccine doses - report He toured a vaccination site at the facility and said: “I am quite happy with the report that I received so far, and I found that it is very well aligned with the plans we have nationally.” So far, more than 70,000 health workers have been vaccinated in Gauteng. And about 280,000 health care workers have received their jabs nationally. WATCH: Mkhize: Vaccine nationalism has taught Africa to be self-reliant  The minister has now moved to another vaccination site in Soweto, in central-western Jabavu, where he was expected to outline their plan for the next phase. He was joined by Premier David Makhura and Health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi. VACCINE CAMPAIGN WILL DEFINITELY COMMENCE NEXT MONTH Mkhize said phase two of the vaccination campaign would definitely begin next month. Mkhize has assured South Africans that the next phase of the national roll plan will begin on 17 May, lasting for six months. “We have another ready 2 million doses of vaccine, which will be finalised coming from the donation we received.” The minister said 51 million doses of vaccines have been procured and of this, 31 million comes from Johnson and Johnson. “We have also gotten a letter that has indicated that there will be some vaccines coming from the Covax facility.” Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.