JOHANNESBURG — The interim board of Cricket South Africa (CSA) has responded to a decision by Minister Nathi Mthethwa to de-recognise and stop funding the body, saying It was a very sad day for the country and millions of South African fans. "It is indeed a very sad day for our country, for cricket, for the millions of South African fans who love the game and the sponsors who have committed to cricket and its grassroots development. But it is a specifically sad day for the players, staff and others whose livelihoods are at stake," CSA statement read. The minister said in a statement on Friday that he had applied his mind to the matter and there were those who were irrational on the members' council. READ: Mthethwa strips CSA of authority to run cricket in SA He said this was about a meeting where members voted against changes to the memorandum of incorporation, which would allow for restructuring at CSA. This comes after many years of internal infighting and instability. Mthethwa said he had noted the opposition to changing the governance structure of CSA. He said this was in particular in relation to a majority of an independent board and an independent chairperson. In response, the interim chairperson of the board, Dr Stavros Nicolaou, spoke out strongly against those who don't want change at CSA: “Only the Members’ Council can retrieve the situation now by resolving to support an expedited procedure in terms of section 60 of the Companies’ Act.” Nicolaouhas commended the majority of the members' council who support good governance and voted in favour of a modern governance structure. “It is deeply disappointing that a self-interested vocal minority voted against change while three members chose to abstain. These actions have now brought the game to its knees and will cause the greatest crisis since readmission.” Mthethwa also said it was a very sad day specifically for the players, staff, and others whose livelihoods were now at stake. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.