JOHANNESBURG - The party Jacob Zuma once lead has reacted to news of his arrest. In a short statement on Thursday morning, the African National Congress (ANC) said it noted the development and it reiterated its own unequivocal support for the country’s Constitution and rule of law. @MYANC statement on former President Jacob Zuma complying with the Constitutional Court Order. pic.twitter.com/sfpGDF6TJo  The ANC has used this moment to call for calm amongst its members as it once again throws its weight behind the country’s principles of democracy. In the statement, which is three paragraphs long, ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe states the party’s position of supporting the supremacy of the Constitution, rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. Mabe falsely praises Zuma for complying with the law, the former president had until Sunday night to comply but chose not to and as a result, he was taken by convoy to the prison in Estcourt. He describes Zuma’s arrest as a difficult period for the movement. On Monday, the ANC’s national executive committee held a special meeting where it resolved to continue upholding rulings of the country’s courts. The Inkatha Freedom Party has also noted Zuma’s incarceration and echoed the ANC’s own calls for calm and restraint among the former leader’s supporters. IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa said: “The IFP reiterates its call to former President Jacob Zuma to respect the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the rule of law and to allow justice to take its course.” ‘VICTORY FOR SA’ The Democratic Alliance (DA) has hailed Zuma’s arrest as an important victory for the rule of law in the country. It also said it should also send a message to those aligned with the former president that the law could not be mocked or challenged with impunity. DA leader John Steenhuisen said this was the tip of the iceberg, adding it should also signal a warning to those implicated in state capture. “The contempt of court charge, while very serious, does not represent the full scale of actual crimes against the people of South Africa and we must still see justice for the 783 charges of fraud, corruption, money laundering and others.” His imprisonment has also taken place with numerous other pending criminal matters waiting the former leader, including the fraud and corruption case linked to the 1999 arms procurement deal and several other allegations, which have been made in the commission of inquiry into state capture. The #ZumaArrest sends a message to all those who have aligned themselves with the Zuma faction and who have become emboldened by his dismissive attitude, that the law cannot be mocked and challenged with impunity. If the leader can go to prison, then so can anyone. -@jsteenhuisen  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.