JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Sunday night that the country would remain on adjusted alert level 4 of lockdown until 25 July as COVID-19 infections were still extremely high. He said that for the last two weeks the country had consistently recorded an average of 20,000 new cases a day, and more than 4,200 South Africans had lost their lives. As a result, the president announced a number of measures that would remain in place. All social, political, religious and other gatherings remain prohibited. It remains mandatory to wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth whenever you are in public. A curfew remains in place from 9pm until 4am, and only those with permission to do so may leave their homes during this time. The ban on the sale of alcohol would remain in place, and schools would remain closed until 26 July. However, the regulations under adjusted level 4 would be amended to allow for restaurants and eateries to open up, subject to COVID-19 regulations such as mask wearing and social distancing and limits on the number of patrons to 50 people, or 50% of capacity for smaller establishments. Certain other venues, such as gyms and fitness centres, may also open and activities such as agricultural livestock and game auctions will be allowed, subject to the conditions outlined in regulations. In what it sure to be good news for many, the president said that the UIF had decided that the COVID-19 TERS scheme should be extended to sectors affected by adjusted level 4 restrictions. The details of the extension will be published following the finalisation of the full scheme, which will include further details on who is eligible for this support. "Since its inception last year, the COVID-19 TERS scheme has already provided more than R60 billion to protect the jobs of 5.5 million workers." The president said that one of the major challenges South Africa had faced so far in expanding its vaccination programme was the availability of vaccine doses. "In the last few days, the African Union, through our office as the AU COVID-19 Champion, and the European Union have reached a historic agreement that will significantly improve the supply of vaccines to our country and our sister countries on the African continent. "Through this agreement, Aspen will be delivering over 17 million Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses to South Africa and other African countries over the next three months, commencing in late July. This number will double monthly from October." He added that as part of the effort to strengthen health security on the continent, there was a commitment by Johnson & Johnson to adapt the current arrangement so that the vaccine can be produced in South Africa under license rather than under contract, resulting in our country and the continent having control over the vaccines. "We are negotiating that in time the drug substance itself would be produced here in South Africa, so that we have a fully owned African vaccine manufactured on African soil in a number of countries on our continent." WATCH: President Ramaphosa addresses the nation  Ramaphosa also condemned the recent violence in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng, saying there was no justification for the violence and disruptive actions that affected the rights of others. He added that there would be zero tolerance for acts of criminality and vandalism and that those involved would be arrested and prosecuted. The President’s address follow meetings of the National Coronavirus Command Council, the President’s Coordinating Council and Cabinet which took place during the course of the day. A statement issued by the Presidency said, "As South Africa rolls out its COVID–19 vaccination programme, government and social partners are continuously monitoring infection, treatment and patient recovery rates as well as compliance with health regulations and other prevention measures." Two weeks ago, Ramaphosa announced a 14-day level 4 lockdown adjustment. Cases continue to show a rapid increase – especially in Gauteng, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal, and the Western Cape. Overnight the Health Department reported that 21,610 new cases had been identified, bringing the total number of confirmed cases since the virus reached the country to 2,179,297. Gauteng remains the epicentre as it accounts for 50% of the new cases, with the Western Cape accounting for 11% of new infections, while Limpopo accounts for 10%. A further 265 people succumbed to the disease overnight, bringing total fatalities to 64,138. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.