  Dear South Africans, To all of you, no matter what you are feeling right now, please know that these emotions are here as a gift to teach us something. Stay with me and I’ll show you how. As you watched unrest spill across South Africa, heard different reports and listened to friends and family speaking about their experiences, emotions could have come up for you, too. You may have felt anger, fear, pain, shame or guilt. Whatever feeling arose for you over last week, and certainly as the weeks unfold, are OK.  Having a feeling is never the problem and recognising our feelings allow us to respond with intention. When we see something, hear something, smell something, we may find ourselves feeling triggered or awakened to an emotion or feeling without fully understanding the ‘why’. How we react to trauma is a complex process and a very clever way the body protects us. When most people think of the word "trauma", they think of Big T abuse like a car accident, assault, or detention. But we now know that trauma can be much subtler than that and just as wounding. Trauma is basically the internal process we go through in any overwhelming situation, including experiences such as long-term poverty or foodlessness. READ: A 'greatly troubling' picture: Children's minds are taking a beating with COVID  So, this is how it works: When we are going through something overwhelming, and what we are being exposed to is much more than we can handle with the skills at our disposal, our mind freezes the pain to protect us. So, most of our deepest pain is muted or numbed to help us survive. And of course, we will react differently depending on when we were exposed, how often, the age and intensity, and more. What I would like to encourage you to do is to connect with your body. The ability to heal is linked to being able to connect with your physical body and starts with awareness of these internal process.  I would say that, rather than suppressing what you are feeling, try to find a time and a place to slow down and do the following: Quiet yourself by breathing in deeply for a count of three and out slowly over the count of five – repeating as many times as you need to feel calm. Name the emotion by asking ‘what am I feeling?’. The ability to give a name to what you feel helps you gain control. As the saying goes “name it to tame it”. Stay away from using big words such as depression or anxiety, asking instead whether you are sad, mad, glad, scared, etc. Does it feel painful? Give yourself permission to feel the emotion by:   4. Once it has passed, allow the emotion to teach you what it is here to teach you. Ask yourself ‘what is this feeling here to teach me?’  The ability to still yourself, breathe in deeply and slowly out, quiets your nervous system to slow down and rebalance. Being aware and connecting to your body is a longer-term practice that is an amazing resource that we can get better at the more we do it. If, dear reader, you have a preexisting condition and the trigger that you feel is much harder than you can handle, please reach out to a qualified therapist who can create a safe space for you. Linda Mthenjane is the managing director and founder of The Space Between Us, a human-centred digital mental health platform in tune with the African psyche. She has over 20 years’ experience in strategic human resources and as a clinical psychologist in private practice. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.