JOHANNESBURG - It was a day of highs and lows at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. There will be no medal for South Africa’s Sevens team after they exited the tournament in the quarter-finals. The 2016 bronze medallists were beaten 19-14 by a six-man Argentina side. But in the medal tally, Team South Africa have so far won two silvers. Tatjana Schoenmaker became the first South African woman to scoop up a medal in the pool in 21 years when she finished second in the 100m breaststroke final. That was followed up by Bianca Buitendag who clinched silver in women's surfing. Chad le Clos also has a chance at a medal on Wednesday after qualifying for the final of the 200m butterfly. IN OTHER TEAM SA UPDATES The men’s hockey team suffered their third defeat of the competition as they went down 9-4 to world number one Belgium. Simone Ackerman finished 17th in the women's triathlon while Candice Lill finished 24th in the women's MTB cross-country. The men's water polo team went down 20-3 to the United States. Gymnast superstar Simone Biles has been pulled out of the USA's team final after an error in the opening minutes of the competition on Tuesday. It was thought she had suffered a serious injury, but her coach told an American TV network that she is dealing with “mental issues”. Team USA rallied to earn silver in the gymnastics women's team finals, behind the Russian Olympic Committee. In tennis, home favourite Naomi Osaka, has crashed out of the singles after losing 6-1, 6-4 to Marketa Vondrousova. Congratulations Tatjana Schoenmaker on your momentous achievement in becoming the first female South African swimmer to win an Olympic medal in over 20 years and for elevating women in sport globally. We are exceptionally proud of you. Keep flying the South African flag high!  pic.twitter.com/JMtZLcDqtX  A very big congratulations to SAs Olympic athlete, Bianca Buitendag, for winning the silver medal for womens surfing at the #TokyoOlympics! We are proud that Bianca is from the Western Cape! Well done Bianca and #TeamSA : TeamSA pic.twitter.com/0HarWWBhxD  LET THE GAMES BEGIN Father God may your will be done, may your peace fill us up, may we praise you no matter what the outcome, may we be empowered by your strength to give it our all and may we forever be in the awe of your goodness! pic.twitter.com/FE21q66Bvs  Silver Medalist at the first ever Womens Surfing @olympics competition #TeamSA#Olympics#Tokyo2020 #BiancaBuitendag pic.twitter.com/89fJB1dBjW  Download the Eyewitness Newsapp to your iOS  or Android  device.