JOHANNESBURG – Gauteng Premier David Makhura said the province lost R3.5 billion due to the recent unrest. ALSO READ:- Govt sure it will have enough COVID vaccine doses to meet country's needs- KZN govt begins work to rebuild communities torn by racial tension- President Ramaphosa: SA should be heading towards herd immunity soon Makhura said that while the information was still preliminary, it also showed that 14,500 jobs were lost while 30 shopping malls were looted. The Gauteng premier gave an update on the economic reconstruction and recovery plan for the province. He said that the looting and violence came on the back of an already difficult period in Gauteng, as many had been out of work due to the level-3 lockdown regulations. Makhura said that no factories were affected and, while malls were affected, businesses outside suffered even more significant losses. "There has been significant disruption of small business operations. Some of the businesses don't necessarily operate in those malls, but they themselves suffered severe disruptions. This includes spaza shops, and informal traders, most of whom operate in the streets. They were severely affected by the unrest." #GPEconomicRecovery | The preliminary estimation caused by the unrest is R3.5 billion in damages. 14 500 jobs have been affected by the unrest.30 out of 500 township malls in the province were impacted. - Premier @David_Makhura  COVID CASES DOWNMakhura said the province had reached its peak of COVID infections and was on a downward trajectory, but warned Gauteng was not out of the woods just yet. His comments follow concerns over COVID-19 infections stemming from the recent unrest experienced across parts of both Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, adding that his government was putting a great deal of effort into ramping up vaccines as part of efforts to counter this. With a target of 100,000 jabs, a day - 53,000 jabs were being administered a day. Makhura also raised concerns over the transmission rate of the virus in communities, and a high number of fatalities. He said 7,000 people were still in hospital. “But there was a period where we had over 8,000 people admitted in our hospitals – so the admissions are coming down. We have a lot of people still succumbing to COVID-19, we are deeply concerned about that from the mortality issues and excess deaths.” #COVID19 | Status of the 3rd Wave and Projections by Prof. Bruce Mellado, member of Premiers Advisory Committee. #StaySafe #PlayYourPart pic.twitter.com/7jvdn4TSWu  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.