JOHANNESBURG - The weekend belonged to Kgothatso 'KG' Montjane as she made Wimbledon history by being the first black South African woman to reach the final at Wimbledon, while reaching the doubles final as well. On Sunday, the wheelchair tennis ace ended her Wimbledon campaign with a runners-up singles category medal. Montjane went down 6-2, 6-2 to top Dutch seed, Diede de Groot. The Limpopo-born para-athlete qualified for her first Grand Slam singles final and Wimbledon final after taking down world number six Japan's Momoko Ohtani 7-6(3), 4-6, 6-4 in Friday's semi-final. READ: Wheelchair tennis ace Montjane secures Wimbledon singles & doubles final spots Motjane loses @Wimbledon final to World No.1.The South African star @KGmontjane1 went down 6-2, 6-2 to Diede de Groot in the Wimbledon singles final.Nevertheless, you have made South Africa proud, KG! What an incredible run! #Wimbledon | #WheelchairTennis pic.twitter.com/k4XZJoyJzw  Sunday's effort came after Montjane and her partner Lucy Shuker battled on Saturday in the women’s doubles wheelchair final where they lost in straight sets. The duo lost to Japan's Yui Kamiji and Great Britain's Jordanne Whiley 6-0, 7-6. The 35-year-old  received widespread praise for becoming the first black South African female to feature in back-to-back finals in a Grand Slam. Ahead of her final on Sunday social media had messages of support under the hashtag #KGMontjaneDay. Even President Cyril Ramaphosa took to social media to wish her well. ALSO READ: Minister Mthethwa congratulates Montjane on historical Wimbledon moment Kgothatso Montjane plays her first grand slam singles final @Wimbledon today. @KGMontjane1 may the serves be sound and the forehands flow as you continue to fly the flag. You will have your coach and the entire country with you. Youve already made us proud. Lets ace this one! pic.twitter.com/nA5dMuMn92  The Limpopo-born athlete was the first African wheelchair tennis player to compete at Wimbledon when she was handed a wild card for the Wimbledon Grand Slam tournament in London, United Kingdom, in 2018. Montjane competed at her first Paralympics in Beijing (2008), then London and Rio de Janeiro. In 2018, she became the first African wheelchair tennis player to compete in the Australian Open, the French Open, Wimbledon and the US Open in the same calendar year. Montjane was born with a congenital birth defect and went through a single amputation below the knee when she was just 12 years old. World No.5 will represent South Africa at the upcoming Paralympics in Tokyo, which are scheduled from 24 August to 5 September. Congratulations to @DiedetheGreat, the 2021 Ladies Wheelchair Singles champion!And cheers to @KGmontjane1 from South Africa on a terrific run. Keep working hard and your time will come. #Wimbledon https://t.co/5jqXM7gIUW  Still my every day inspiration. So so proud of you @KGmontjane1 . Thank u for being such  champion that proudly #FlyTheFlag for Womens Sport #KGMontjaneDay #GoGirls #WomenInSport #FlyTheFlag #Wimbledon2021 #WimbledonFinal #PlayYourPart https://t.co/VVWgy5fgo7  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.