JOHANNESBURG - ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa told Meadowlands residents in Soweto to never allow anyone to destroy the country’s hard fought democracy. Ramaphosa was speaking at the Ndofaya mall on Sunday where ten people were killed in a stampede during last weeks looting. Ndofaya mall is one of the hardest hit following days of looting in some parts of Soweto. On this #MandelaDay, we join all South Africans who have been engaged in cleanup and rebuilding activities in Gauteng and KZN following the devastation caused by the public violence and looting that took place. We say thank you for defending our democracy.  #CleanUpSA #RebuildSA pic.twitter.com/nBzEyZLNlY  This is where ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa started the first leg of his cleaning campaign in affected areas. This is what he had to say to community members. "They came with angle grinders, they come with guns, they come with all manner of things, and they were essentially trying to attack our democracy". Ramaphosa headed to Jabulani mall which also came under attack. The president then visited Maponya mall which was not targeted as it was guarded by community members. I started the day with a visit to Ndofaya Mall guided by Gauteng Premier David Makhura & Centre Manager Mxolisi Duma to assess the damage caused by the recent looting & vandalism. 10 people died here during a stampede as looters stormed the mall. #MandelaDay #CleanUpSA #RebuildSA pic.twitter.com/jjUBF12ree  Jabulani Mall is one of the busiest malls in Soweto. Our people collect social grants at the post office here and there were vaccination stations set up here, services which are now interrupted because of the looting. Centre management have assured me that they will #rebuildSA. pic.twitter.com/bShpkQsAFW  Maponya Mall was my final stop today, where I met with a group of young people led by @Nhlanhla_Lux_, who rose up during the riots and worked closely with law enforcement to protect Maponya Mall, a pride of our nation that has managed to create jobs and sustain livelihoods. pic.twitter.com/8qezxtrvXx  Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.