JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs have announced the termination of the contract of head coach Gavin Hunt with immediate effect. Assistant coaches Arthur Zwane and Dillion Sheppard will take charge of the team in the interim. It’s been a difficult season for the coach, who was appointed to the role in September 2020, as a replacement for Ernst Middendorp. Breaking News Kaizer Chiefs have terminated coach Gavin Hunts contract with immediate effect.In the interim, Assistant Coaches Arthur Zwane and Dillon Sheppard will take charge of the senior team. The Club will make further announcements in due course. #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/zb0HzRZcA9  The Glamour Boys are currently 11th in the DStv Premiership, having lost 10 of their 28 games so far this season. They’ve also won just six games. They are, however, through to their first CAF Champions League semifinal in their maiden campaign and will take on Wydad Casablanca in the last four. Amakhosi said that an announcement about Hunt’s replacement would be made in due course. Hunt took over a side who finished second in the Absa Premiership the season before but struggled to mount a title challenge in the current campaign after failing to strengthen the side after being handed a transfer ban by football governing body, Fifa. In May, the club’s supporters also showed their frustration with the way things were being run at the club as they protested at the club’s training base in Naturena. One of the participants at the protest was Phillix Kokwele, who spoke to Eyewitness News about the direction that the club was taking. "As Kaizer Chiefs supporters, we are not happy with the direction the club is taking or has taken in the past 6/7 years," he said. "For a club like Kaizer Chiefs, as you can see now, just fighting for crumbs at the bottom of the league, is actually unheard of. We are not satisfied with that and we feel we have to stand up and engage with management and to change a lot of things we feel need to be changed," Kowele said. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.