JOHANNESBURG - Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has granted former minister, Malusi Gigaba, leave to cross-examine his estranged wife Norma Mngoma. But he said that that would happen on a date to be announced. Zondo noted Gigaba's position that he denied Mngoma's testimony and said that it was a fabrication intended to destroy him. READ: Mngoma challenges Gigaba to prove she is lying about his Gupta dealings He said that since the commission did not have time, the date to be set would be after hours or on a weekend but before the end of May. "Mr Malusi Knowledge Gigaba is granted leave to cross-examine Ms Mngoma, that is one. Two, I will determine the duration of the cross-examination on the occasion of the cross-examination or shortly before the cross-examination," Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo said. Mngoma on Friday said that she was not ready to face Gigaba after what happened on Thursday night, presumably referring to the security threat that forced the commission to adjourn. Gigaba has now taken the stand to testify. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba in the hot seat at state capture inquiry  Mngoma earlier denied that she told Gigaba that State Security and African National Congress (ANC) officials wanted to use her to destroy him politically. Gigaba alleged in his affidavit that the car that Mngoma now drove was bought for her in exchange for her cooperation, but she denies this, saying that she purchased the vehicle herself. He said that Mngoma told him that her lawyer, Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi, was close to the commission chair and was excited to get her to testify against him. Ngcukaitobi represented Mngoma in court and the commission in the Jacob Zuma Constitutional Court contempt application. However, Mngoma denied that she tried to blackmail Gigaba with this link. "She further told me that Advocate Ngcukaitobi SC is part of the commission that he was extremely close to the chairperson through his assistance to the chairperson in another matter. Did you say that to him or didn't you?" evidence leader Advocate Anton Myburgh asked Mngoma. "I didn't. Also, this is a lie. Malusi is picking on Advocate Ngcukaitobi because at that time I hadn't even spoken to him," Mngoma said. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.