JOHANNESBURG - Suspended African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general Ace Magashule has been instructed to apologise to President Cyril Ramaphosa for issuing a suspension letter to him or face disciplinary charges. President Ramaphosa disclosed this during his closing address to the three-day national executive committee (NEC) meeting. Ramaphosa was issued a suspension letter by the embattled secretary-general just hours after it emerged that the ANC national working committee had served Magashule with his own suspension letter. READ: Defiant Magashule says he's still ANC SG; suspends party leader Ramaphosa Magashule is facing corruption charges but has refused to step aside. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said that Magashule had no authority or mandate from any of the party’s structures to draft a suspension letter in his name. READ MORE: Cyril Ramaphosa to ANC: Ace Magashule's letter to me is null and void "The NEC agree that such conduct was completely unacceptable and a flagrant violation of the rules, the norms and the values of the African National Congress," Ramaphosa said. Magashule’s temporary suspension bars him from doing any of his duties, speaking on behalf of the organisation or on any of its matters as well as mobilising across ANC structures. He has, however, insisted that he had the right to continue as if it was business as usual because he had appealed his sanction. ALSO READ:• ANC Veterans League: Ace Magashule's behaviour is embarrassing• Pandor: All corrupt ANC officials must go to jail• Some ANC branches in eThekwini call for Magashule to be reinstated as SG But Ramaphosa said that there could be more charges if Magashule did not apologise to the ANC soon. "If he fails to do so, the ANC will institute disciplinary procedures in accordance to the ANC constitution." Magashule’s deputy, Jessie Duarte - who has been receiving threats throughout this saga - will carry out his duties going forward. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.