JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC)'s Pemmy Majodina said she would be opening a case of assault against a member of the Pan-African Parliament who kicked her on Monday afternoon. Pandemonium broke out when tempers flared over the rotational leadership system. Majodina explains what happened: “I could see there was a scuffle down there, people were fighting and I saw honourable Djibril War from Senegal running and attacking honourable Pupurai Togarepi from Zimbabwe. I went in there to make peace; I was trying to separate them. It is at that stage that I was attacked by honourable Djibril  who is the chairperson of the rules.” She was then attacked: “And he kicked me. It is against that background that I’m going to open a case but now that the fight must be directed to me… I’m not going to take this lying down.” Some members managed to intervene, with many then shouting out: “You can't hit a woman.” WATCH LIVE: Election of members of the Bureau of the Pan-African Parliament  But there were cries for help when fists started to fly. “Please call the police, it is urgent. You should call the police.” Members of Parliament eventually returned to their caucuses. Leader of the South African delegation Amos Masondo has called for calm.“It’s disappointing that at this critical point in time, there are these differences and the temperatures have gone a bit high.” Majodina said the southern African region had been "bullied" for years. "We have to put a stop on this and allow each and every region an opportunity to lead this continent," she said. Another lawmaker retorted that to the contrary: "We are being harassed by South Africans," adding: "We are not safe in South Africa." Cameroonian Roger Nkodo Dang served two three-year terms as the president since 2015. He was preceded by Nigeria's Bethel Amadi, and before that Moussa Idriss of Cameroon. The Parliament sits for three weeks twice a year at its headquarters in Midrand, located between the South African capital Pretoria and Johannesburg. Formed in 2004, the assembly is the legislative branch of the African Union, but in reality it is merely a consultative body. Its members are elected through their national legislatures. Additional reporting by AFP. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.