JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address the nation at 7 pm on Sunday on developments in the country's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa’s address follows meetings in recent days of the national coronavirus command council, the president’s coordinating council and Cabinet. As South Africa rolls out its national COVID-19 vaccination programme, government and social partners are continuously monitoring infection, treatment and patient recovery rates, as well as compliance with health regulations and other prevention measures. The Presidency’s acting spokesperson Tyrone Seale said: “President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation at 7 pm this evening on development in the country’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.” The president’s address will be broadcast and streamed on a range of platforms that are accessible to South Africans and international audiences. Meanwhile, South Africa's Liquor Traders say the surge in the illegal sale of alcohol proved that government's restrictions have been ineffective. There are concerns that government will impose stricter measures as the country sees an increase in new COVID-19 infections. The National Liquor Traders Council said the illicit alcohol trade now accounts for more than 20% of the alcohol market in South Africa. Spokesperson Lucky Ntimane said banning liquor as a way of dealing with COVID-19 was a futile exercise. “Heavy-handed measures like prohibition are not a sustainable solution and now we have seen the disastrous consequences. These scrupulous operators don’t abide by any regulations.” TIGHTER RESTRICTIONS DURING WINTER The South African Medical Association (SAMA) has recommended government impose tighter COVID-19 lockdown restrictions during winter. South Africa recorded over 4,500 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours while 70 more people have died here in South Africa after contracting the virus bringing the country's death toll to 56,363. One of the leading voices of the COVID-19 pandemic response in South Africa is now banging the drum for tougher lockdown restrictions. SAMA’s doctor Angelioue Coetzee said Ramaphosa should consider stricter enforcement of mask-wearing in public and social distancing, while restrictions on gatherings and an earlier evening curfew should be imposed. “The curfew must go back to 10 pm until 5 am or 6 am. We need to look at again, where people come together because that is what is going to catch up with us.” With the country currently at level one, there is a relative degree of freedom but large gatherings and indoor events are once again driving our case numbers in the wrong direction. Several provinces are already at the mercy of the third wave. Additional reporting by Nobuhle Khoma. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.