JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte on Tuesday said the party was not broke, it was simply experiencing some “cashflow troubles”. Duarte said since the Party Funding Act came into effect at the end of April, its funders had become reluctant to continue donating to the ANC. The governing party has often made headlines over cashflow issues, which has resulted in its staffers receiving salaries late on many occasions. READ: Duarte reveals most of the threats she received were racist and sexist In audio leaks from the weekend special NEC meeting, treasurer general Paul Mashatile can be heard suggesting possibly exploring halving the party’s staff component to manage the issue. ALSO READ: ANC mulling slashing staff complement by 50% - Mashatile says in leaked audio Duarte said the ANC’s financial troubles were a well-known reality and she admitted the situation had gotten worse since the Political Party Funding Act came into effect. The act is aimed at regulating the public and private funding of political parties. Duarte said while the party’s donors were known to support other political parties, in the ANC’s case, she said they had become weary. “So, they don’t want to be known that they fund the ANC and they believe that it might be bad for business.” She said it was a difficult period but insisted the party would find ways to survive and those ways would be legal. WATCH: Duarte admits the ANC has cashflow problems  Duarte also addressed leaked audio clips about possible job cuts at Luthuli House, saying the breach was unfortunate and sensational. “The labour law does not allow us to simply willy nilly reduce staff by 50%, we have to go through various processes if indeed we do make such a critical decision.” The deputy secretary general said if retrenchments had to take place, they would be done in a just and fair manner. PARLY TO ASSIST IN CHANGING CORRUPT ACCUSED POSITIONS Parliament will have to give the ANC guidance when it comes to suspended national executive committee member Bongani Bongo who also chairs the home affairs committee. Duarte said the ANC had asked Parliament to assist with changing people’s positions in the legislatures and to clarify how this would impact their salaries. “If somebody is a chairperson and become an ordinary member of Parliament, what happens and can you change, according to labour laws, people’s paid rates? Parliament will give us guidance there.” The suspensions, which come with full pay, prevent members from continuing with their executive duties. This means they cannot speak for the party or weigh in on issues. It also dictates that those heading up committees in legislature step down from those roles to become ordinary members. Bongo, like several others, is facing corruption, fraud, theft and money laundering charges related to illegal land deals. Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android device.