JOHANNESBURG – Joburg Metrobus has said services will come to a complete halt on Monday following ongoing strike action by its drivers. The company and workers aligned to the Democratic Municipal and Allied Workers Union of South Africa (Demawusa) have been at loggerheads over a list of grievances, including failed wage negotiations. READ: Metrobus strike: Residents urged to make alternative transport plans The union demanded a salary increase of 18%, but Metrobus said it is unable to meet that demand. Metrobus spokesperson Goodwill Shiburi said the company's attempt to talk with the union while operations continue through the strike have failed. Shiburi said services would be suspended due to threats of violence and intimidation. “Unfortunately, the employer is not able to guarantee the safety of the commuters, and that of the employees of Metrobus on the road due to the threats that we have been receiving; and the history that we have where many of the people have been killed and injured in the past because of the strike. It is unfortunate that the employer to stop, formerly, to operate in and around of Johannesburg. As of Monday, guaranteed, it’s a complete shutdown.” COMMUTERS URGED TO ARRANGE ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORT ON MONDAY Metrobus commuters have been asked to make alternative transport arrangements from Monday. The bus company says it has no choice but to suspend its services as fears that passengers could be intimidated by striking drivers. This as the week-long strike left the bus company unable to operate. The South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) and the Independent Municipal & Allied Trade Union (Imatu) have said none of their members would be taking part in the protest. Shiburi said, “We are encouraging commuters to continue making alternative transport arrangements. Samwu and Imatu are not on strike, their drivers are coming to work every day; as early as 5 am in the morning. But the fact they are receiving threats from their fellow workers, we are not able to guarantee that they are safe to drive buses and also passengers in those buses.” Download the Eyewitness News app to your iOS  or Android  device.